# JupyterHub Logging and Data Collection Disclosures

In the course of its operation, the Linux servers we run on, the distributed frameworks (e.g., Kubernetes), the JupyterHub code, and Jupyter Notebooks generate a number of logs. These logs contain information about resources accessed, issues encoutered, and other information relevant for maintaining the performance and security of the system. These logs are required for maintanence of security and normal operation of the system.

Further logs are generated by custom instrumentation infrastructure that collects information on usage of resources to assist future development. This includes the amount of memory used, CPU usage, the activity of individual Jupyter notebook servers, and activity of Python kernels. We anonymize and summarize these logs into a set of anonymized usage statistics that inform future development.

Specifically, we compute:

- The total number of registered users
- How many users are logged in, as a function of time
- Whether the user has Jupyter open as, a function of time
- RAM/swap and CPU usage and whether the user's Python interpreter is active, as a function of time

The first two of these are anonymous by their nature, and the second two are anonymized before the data statistics are used. After the statistics listed above are computed, all logs generated by the resource usage instrumentation are deleted.

It is possible to opt out of collection of anonymized usage statistics information. To do so, either e-mail [stevengs@uw.edu](mailto:stevengs@uw.edu) with the subject line "Astro Hack Week JupyterHub Opt Out -- <GitHubUsername>" (where 'GitHubUsername' is your github username) or create a file named .optout in your JupyterHub home directory. This will stop any resource usage instrumentation running in conjunction with your JupyterHub in no more than 24hrs, and cause any resource usage logs collected so far to be deleted.

